---
title: "Optimizing Distributed Machine Learning for Large Scale EEG Data Set"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2017-01-02-paper-5
excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 1. The number 2 is left for future work.'
date: 2017-01-02
venue: 'Sukkur IBA Journal of Computing and Mathematical Sciences 1.1 (2017): 114-121.'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.30537/sjcms.v1i1.14'
# citation: 
---
<!-- This paper is about the number 1. The number 2 is left for future work. -->

[Download paper here](http://journal.iba-suk.edu.pk:8089/SIBAJournals/index.php/sjcms/article/view/14)

Abstract: Distributed Machine Learning (DML) has gained its importance more than ever in this era of Big Data. There are a lot of challenges to scale machine learning techniques on distributed platforms. When it comes to scalability, improving the processor technology for high level computation of data is at its limit, however increasing machine nodes and distributing data along with computation looks as a viable solution. Different frameworks   and platforms are available to solve DML problems. These platforms provide automated random data distribution of datasets which miss the power of user defined intelligent data partitioning based on domain knowledge. We have conducted an empirical study which uses an EEG Data Set collected through P300 Speller component of an ERP (Event Related Potential) which is widely used in BCI problems; it helps in translating the intention of subject w h i l e performing any cognitive task. EEG data contains noise due to waves generated by other activities in the brain which contaminates true P300Speller. Use of Machine Learning techniques could help in detecting errors made by P300 Speller. We are solving this classification problem by partitioning data into different chunks and preparing distributed models using Elastic CV Classifier. To present a case of optimizing distributed machine learning, we propose an intelligent user defined data partitioning approach that could impact on the accuracy of distributed machine learners on average. Our results show better average AUC as compared to average AUC obtained after applying random data partitioning which gives no control to user over data partitioning. It improves the average accuracy of distributed learner due to the domain specific intelligent partitioning by the user. Our customized approach achieves 0.66 AUC on individual sessions and 0.75 AUC on mixed sessions, whereas random / uncontrolled data distribution records 0.63 AUC.


Recommended citation: Chandio, J. A., Soomrani, M. A. R., Sahito, A., & Siddiqui, S. "Initiative for Thyroid Cancer Diagnosis: Decision Support System for Anaplast Thyroid Cancer." Sukkur IBA Journal of Computing and Mathematical Sciences 1.2 (2017): 48-56.