---
title: "Initiative For Thyroid Cancer Diagnosis: Decision Support System For Anaplast Thyroid Cancer"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2017-01-01-paper-4
excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 1. The number 2 is left for future work.'
date: 2017-01-01
venue: 'Sukkur IBA Journal of Computing and Mathematical Sciences 1.2 (2017): 48-56'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.30537/sjcms.v1i2.44'
# citation: 
---
<!-- This paper is about the number 1. The number 2 is left for future work. -->

[Download paper here](http://journal.iba-suk.edu.pk:8089/sibajournals/index.php/sjcms/article/view/44)

Abstract: Due to the high level exposure of biomedical image analysis, Medical image mining has become one of the well-established research area(s) of machine learning. AI (Artificial Intelligence) techniques have been vastly used to solve the complex classification problems of thyroid cancer. Since the persistence of copycat chromatin properties and unavailability of nuclei measurement techniques, it is really problem for doctors to determine the initial phases of nuclei enlargement and to assess the early changes of chromatin distribution. For example involvement of multiple transparent overlapping of nuclei may become the cause of confusion to infer the growth pattern of nuclei variations. Un-decidable nuclei eccentric properties may become one of the leading causes for misdiagnosis in Anaplast cancers. In-order to mitigate all above stated problems this paper proposes a novel methodology so called “Decision Support System for Anaplast Thyroid Cancer” and it proposes a medical data preparation algorithm AD (Analpast_Cancers) which helps to select the appropriate features of Anaplast cancers such as (1) enlargement of nuclei, (2) persistence of irregularity in nuclei and existence of hyper chromatin. Proposed methodology comprises over four major layers, first layer deals with the noise reduction, detection of nuclei edges and object clusters. Second layer selects the features of object of interest such as nuclei enlargement, irregularity and hyper chromatin. Third layer constructs the decision model to extract the hidden patterns of disease associated variables and final layer evaluates the performance evaluation by using confusion matrix, precision and recall measures. The overall classification accuracy is measured about 97.2% with 10-k fold cross validation.


Recommended citation: Chandio, J. A., Soomrani, M. A. R., Sahito, A., & Siddiqui, S. "Initiative for Thyroid Cancer Diagnosis: Decision Support System for Anaplast Thyroid Cancer." Sukkur IBA Journal of Computing and Mathematical Sciences 1.2 (2017): 48-56.